README.md, before:

# Project setup made easy

This is a template repository, which can be used to create backend projects in `Go` programming language. <br>
It uses `proto` programming language to create an API definition, which is used to generate stubs for gRPC and REST endpoints as well as openAPI.v2 JSON specification. <br>
Think of end product as gRPC service with REST proxy (which is created with minimal effort using [grpc-gateway](https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-gateway)). <br>
Also [buf](https://docs.buf.build) is used to manage proto dependencies without manually downloading files and placing them in your project. <br>
This template has some pre-imported proto libraries (i.e. googleapis/googleapis, envoyproxy/protoc-gen-validate and grpc-ecosystem/grpc-gateway)

---

### Prerequisites

* Go binary installed ([link](https://go.dev/dl/)).
* Buf binary installed ([link](https://docs.buf.build/installation)).

### Nice to have

* Buf extension in your IDE of choice.<br>
  This will include real-time `.proto` file linting and provide additional intellisense.

---

### Project setup

* Click `Use this template` button and create your repository.
* Clone your repository to desired directory on the local machine.<br>
  (using `git clone` or git tools in your IDE).
* Run `make init` command in your project root.<br>
  This will install required protoc binaries to your `$GOPATH/bin` directory.
* Change `awesomeProject` in `go.mod` file to the name of your go module.<br>
  Recommended prefixing it with `github.com/{your_username}/` and naming it the same as your repository.<br>
  Example: `module github.com/grimerssy/go-template`.
* Go to `buf.gen.yaml` file and change `awesomeProject` to your module name in the `go_package_prefix.default` field.

### Get coding

* Write your first `.proto` file in `/api/proto/{proto_package}` directory.<br>
  It may look like `/api/proto/v1/helloworld.proto`<br>
  or `/api/proto/helloworld/v1/helloworld.proto`.
* Run `make gen` command.<br>
  This will generate API specification (`api/spec/helloworld.swagger.json` file).<br>
  And `.pb.go` files in `/internal/api/helloworld/v1` or `/internal/api/v1` directory<br>
  corresponding to your `.proto` package name.
* Write your handlers, use cases and repositories, set up gRPC and/or HTTP servers.<br>
  Note: for more help, you can find a `README.md` file in each directory of this repository. 

---

### Tools

* To test or run your project run `make test` or `make run` commands respectfully.
* Buf makes it easier to import third party `.proto` packages without manually copying them to your `/third_party` directory.<br>
  To manage your dependencies go to `/api/proto/buf.yaml` file and make changes in `deps` field.<br>
  Note: try to keep `deps` in `/api/proto/buf.yaml` and `go_package_prefix.except` in `buf.gen.yaml` in sync to avoid incorrect `Go` import paths.<br>
  After all the above, run `make update` command.<br>
  If you have buf extension installed, updated dependencies will be available in the intellisense.
* To learn more about buf tool, visit [introduction to buf](https://docs.buf.build/introduction).

Commit message:

add headers and go-example to README.md

README.md, after:

# Project setup made easy

---

### Introduction

This is a template repository, which can be used to create backend projects in `Go` programming language. <br>
It uses `proto` programming language to create an API definition, which is used to generate stubs for gRPC and REST endpoints as well as openAPI.v2 JSON specification. <br>
Think of end product as gRPC service with REST proxy (which is created with minimal effort using [grpc-gateway](https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-gateway)). <br>
Also [buf](https://docs.buf.build) is used to manage proto dependencies without manually downloading files and placing them in your project. <br>
This template has some pre-imported proto libraries (i.e. googleapis/googleapis, envoyproxy/protoc-gen-validate and grpc-ecosystem/grpc-gateway)

### Examples

- [go-example](https://github.com/grimerssy/go-example) - simple to 
  understand project that uses this template, which will introduce you to 
  the technologies I use

---

### Prerequisites

* Go binary installed ([link](https://go.dev/dl/)).
* Buf binary installed ([link](https://docs.buf.build/installation)).

### Nice to have

* Buf extension in your IDE of choice.<br>
  This will include real-time `.proto` file linting and provide additional intellisense.

---

### Project setup

* Click `Use this template` button and create your repository.
* Clone your repository to desired directory on the local machine.<br>
  (using `git clone` or git tools in your IDE).
* Run `make init` command in your project root.<br>
  This will install required protoc binaries to your `$GOPATH/bin` directory.
* Change `awesomeProject` in `go.mod` file to the name of your go module.<br>
  Recommended prefixing it with `github.com/{your_username}/` and naming it the same as your repository.<br>
  Example: `module github.com/grimerssy/go-template`.
* Go to `buf.gen.yaml` file and change `awesomeProject` to your module name in the `go_package_prefix.default` field.

### Get coding

* Write your first `.proto` file in `/api/proto/{proto_package}` directory.<br>
  It may look like `/api/proto/v1/helloworld.proto`<br>
  or `/api/proto/helloworld/v1/helloworld.proto`.
* Run `make gen` command.<br>
  This will generate API specification (`api/spec/helloworld.swagger.json` file).<br>
  And `.pb.go` files in `/internal/api/helloworld/v1` or `/internal/api/v1` directory<br>
  corresponding to your `.proto` package name.
* Write your handlers, use cases and repositories, set up gRPC and/or HTTP servers.<br>
  Note: for more help, you can find a `README.md` file in each directory of this repository. 

---

### Tools

* To test or run your project run `make test` or `make run` commands respectfully.
* Buf makes it easier to import third party `.proto` packages without manually copying them to your `/third_party` directory.<br>
  To manage your dependencies go to `/api/proto/buf.yaml` file and make changes in `deps` field.<br>
  Note: try to keep `deps` in `/api/proto/buf.yaml` and `go_package_prefix.except` in `buf.gen.yaml` in sync to avoid incorrect `Go` import paths.<br>
  After all the above, run `make update` command.<br>
  If you have buf extension installed, updated dependencies will be available in the intellisense.
* To learn more about buf tool, visit [introduction to buf](https://docs.buf.build/introduction).
